---
layout: post
title: "An Unconventional Friendship"
categories: blog
tags: [school, dogs, pets, alsatian, harry potter, roadtrip, dobby, friendship, elf, trees, music, tournaments]
image:
  feature: unconventional-friendship.jpg
  teaser: unconventional-friendship.jpg
  credit: Pixabay
  creditlink: ""
---

Little Harry was a star in his world. His parents were considered among the greatest and humblest and great deeds were expected from _The Boy Who Lived_, too. He had responsibilities and dreams of hundreds to fulfil right after his birth. Harry was mature enough for his age, maybe that’s why he understood why the world needed people like Dobby.

One evening before dinner, Dobby barged into Harry’s room to warn him not to attend school the following year. Dobby was a house elf. These creatures were not given a high stature in the wizarding world but Harry treated him with respect and helped him get what he longed for the most in his life ; freedom. Since then, Harry found himself a true friend A friend, who even sacrificed his own life to save him.

This is not just a story from a record - breaking novel, but one about those people  in our lives, who often seem to be rather insignificant, but teach us lessons for a lifetime.

I still remember my sixth birthday when my Dad got me a new born Alsatian as a present. Golden brown furs, white patches on the tiny paws and the most innocent eyes in the world! It was love at first sight. Since then, all my best friend essays and summer breaks were incomplete without Kipper. Every morning I would wake up to the sound of ‘Woof! Woof!’ and in the afternoon he would wait for me to return from school after which  had lunch together. Evenings, I would take him out for a walk near the creek and tell him everything that happened in school, and watch the flamingoes fly away to the golden ocean. When Mom used to scold me I would go and sit with him and he always had something new to cheer me up. Things as trivial as finding a new bone made that little beast jump around in excitement, which made me value and be happy about the little things we come across each day. He taught me that the toughest things in life can be handled with just a playful and healthy approach.

During vacations we used to go on road trips to the countryside. That genius soul, showed me how beautiful nature is, with every tree in the world having a different shade of green and that even silence has music. If you want to know how to enjoy life without materialistic pleasures, just observe an animal playing and enjoying itself in the midst of nature. I’ve seen him jump around happily when I came back after winning tournaments and become sad when I was unwell or go sit silently in a corner when I used to vent out my anger on him. I’ve learnt from him, what it is to unconditionally love someone. No matter how much people hate you, if you show them love, the hatred is going to fade eventually.

It was the last day before the school closed for winter break. I came back home and saw my mother crying, sitting beside a motionless Kipper. I froze. I felt an unbearable pain, which, till today I can’t put into words. He had not been keeping well since the past few months. But I was sure he would be fine in a few days. I had known him for 12 years and suddenly he was not there anymore. I knew this day had to come, but I could never prepare myself for it. I think, that day marked the end of my childhood because after that I never vented my anger out unnecessarily on someone nor did I ever jump in excitement or run back home to an eagerly waiting Kipper when something good happened.

To this date, when I think of Kipper or come across stories with characters like Dobby, I realise, how important these unconventional friendships in life are. They end up giving us a lot of life lessons which otherwise we would never learn. To be there for people who matter, to give freedom its own new definition, to be happy for others and to help them in need without expecting a favour in return. And, to teach how important it is to experience loss and detachment in order to value our present and make the most of it, before it’s gone. In the end, you don’t count the years in your life, you count the life in your years.
