---
layout: post
title: "Escape From Reality"
categories: blog
tags: [school, integration, differentiation, India, Indian, parents, cricket, hoverboard, villages, mango, bus, ride, escape, Isaac Newton]
image:
  feature: escape-from-reality.jpg
  teaser: escape-from-reality.jpg
  credit: Pixabay
  creditlink: ""
---

It is 8:00 AM sharp and I am right on time for my morning lecture. The topic of today’s discussion is Integration. How the inverse of differentiation can help determine the area under a curve for infinitesimal data. I look around the class and see some students self studying and preparing for entrance exams, some discussing adventures of last night’s football match, some sleeping and a handful of them actually trying to understand why did Sir Isaac Newton(or Gottfried Leibniz) invent something so complex. Just then two students start an argument and no sooner than I can realize, they get into a fist fight. Everyone looks up to me to see what will I do now. Being the obedient teacher I was, I spent my following day in the principal’s office meeting the students’ parents, attending the hurt ward and resolving the issue of who stole the iPod!

After a long tiring day, I sit on the window seat, on my bus back home contemplating how much simpler life was when I was a kid. We used to get spinning tops to schools in our times rather than complicated and expensive gadgets. We used to fight over others’ lunch boxes and play, to win marbles during lunch breaks. Lost in my thoughts, I realize that the bus is not on its regular route. There are tall trees on both sides of the unpaved road that are tapering down from the top to create a perfect arch. There were small houses at some distance from the main road. The road was covered in orange and brown dried leaves which when merged with the sun rays, painted one of the most perfect landscape ever. The scene looked straight out of a Robert Frost poem. I have never been in this part of the city before. Suddenly, the bus stops in the middle of nowhere and everyone disembarked.

Walking along the muddy path, I see a well nearby and start walking towards it. Near the well was a huge Mango tree covered with the flowers. It looked exactly like my village back home. After school, every evening, me and my friends would come and play near the tree. We would race to the top of the tree, sit there and watch the sun set into the mountains far away. The view from the top was one the highlights of my day. Back then, there was no concept of tuition so we had the entire evening to ourselves. All the friends would gather around and invent games ourselves that would not involve any cricket bat or hoverboards. If we fell down, we would rub a little bit of mud around to stop the blood and our parents wouldn’t even find out about it, unlike today when parents roam around with mosquito repellents in the parks.

I walk up to a hawker selling ‘aam panna’. It is my favourite drink in the world. Back then, it was ‘thanda matlab aam panna/nimbu paani’ and not Coca-Cola. We used to visit our grandparents during vacations. Eat fruits directly from the trees and at night sleep on the terrace, underneath the stars listening to stories, sharing our experiences and fall asleep waiting for a glimpse of the shooting star.
I decide to bring my wife and grandchildren to this place spend quality time with them here, and show them how their grandparents’ lives were as children. A life without cell phones and air conditioners. A life without McDonald’s and free Wi-Fi. Tell them how we made friends sitting near the common bonfire after electricity went out in the village and not in clubs and parties. I am sure they will have a lot of fun and enjoy the calmness and serenity of this world that has almost ceased to exist. And my wife will get to relive her childhood again, because when you’re 70 years old, all you hold on  to, are memories and a chance to experience them one more time.

Suddenly, I hear my bus honking loudly. I look around and see the conductor waking me up, informing that my stop has arrived. Oh, what a wonderful dream it was! Planning to visit my village this vacation, I get down from the bus, back to the present. I guess we all have our own way to take a temporary refuge from reality. To break free from the daily life hussle, and relax in our own time and space. The place where we would find our ultimate solace in. Mine was my childhood. What’s yours?
 
> _In memory of my beloved grandfather. The best teacher and amazing human being._
